* Notifications

This document describes how to enable notifications.  You probably
should not start at this document, as there will be no notifications
unless you have figured out how to use the monitor and reactor.  A
good place to start is probably [[filtering_rss.txt]].


** Notification reactors

There are currently three notification reactors:

  - Console
  - Growl
  - Voice
  - IRC

The 'Growl' and 'Voice' reactors currently only work on OS X.  These
plugins could easily be adapated to use pop-up and voice notifications
on other operating systems, but that has not yet been done.

All three reactors look for a 'subject' field on a message, and use
that for the notification.  Messages that do not have a 'subject'
field are ignored.  Many monitors will set the 'subject' field to
something useful.  For example, the RSS plugin will set the 'subject'
field of RSS feed items to be the RSS title.  You can easily use the
reactor to remove the subject from messages when you want to suppress
notifications.

In addition to the 'subject' field, the message key will be prefixed
with the 'key' of the original monitor that generated the message, and
a timestamp of when the message was originally generated.  If the
message contains a 'username' that is also included in the
notification.

To enable the notifications, start with a rule tree that selects
messages that contain subjects.  For the complete config, skip to the
bottom.

  - name: notifications
    condition: subject is true
    rules:


** Console

Begin by enabing the 'Console' plugin.  This will send all subjects to
stdout in the terminal that is running wubot-reactor.  If the message
contains a 'color' field, the Console plugin will attempt to display
the message in the closest ANSI color.

      - name: console
        plugin: Console


** Growl

If you have 'Growl' installed on OS X, and you have the 'growlnotify'
command line tool installed, and the Growl::Tiny perl library
installed, then wubot can send a growl notification.  Enabling the
growl notifications is easy, just add a 'Growl' rule.
        
      - name: growl notify
        plugin: Growl

*** Growl Icons

It would be nice to have an icon for the growl notifications, so we'll
use the Icon plugin to find one.  This plugin looks at a series of
fields on the message (e.g. the username, the key, the plugin, the
instance name) and tries to find a custom .png file in your icons
directory that is appropriate.

      - name: growl icon
        plugin: Icon
        config:
          image_dir: /Users/your_id/.icons

*** Growl Colors

It is also nice to have colorized growl messages.  Unfortunately you
can't just pass a color into growl.  One trick I've found here is to
use the 'smoke' theme and then configure a different color for each
priority.  For very low, I use blue, moderate is green, normal is
black, high is orange, and emergency is red.  Then I have a rule in
the reactor which maps the name of a color to the growl priority:

      - name: growl color
        plugin: HashLookup
        config:
          source_field: color
          target_field: growl_priority
          lookup:
            red: 2
            yellow: 1
            orange: 1
            grey: 0
            bold black: 0
            green: -1
            magenta: -2
            purple: -2
            blue: -2
            cyan: -2

Now if I have a rule that runs before this rule that sets the 'color'
field to blue, this rule will set a field called 'growl_priority' in
the message which will have the priority that corresponds to the color
i set for that priority in the growl preferences.

*** Growl identifier

Growl has a feature called 'coalescing'.  This allows multiple
notifications to re-use a sigle bubble for notifications, with the
latest notification taking precedence.

By default, wubot will set the growl identifier for each growl
notification to be the message key.  This helps prevent message
floods, especially when starting up wubot if there are a lot of
notifications waiting in the queue.  Without a growl identifier,
dozens (or even hundreds) of notification menus could queue up and
prevent you from being able to work.

In some cases this may work against you.  For example, if you use the
Twitter plugin, if multiple tweets come through quickly from different
users, they will re-use the same notification bubble and you may only
get a chance to read the last one.  So in these situations, you can
override the default behavior by setting 'growl_id'.  For example:

  - name: twitter growl id
    condition: key matches ^Twitter and username is true
    plugin: Template
    config:
      template: 'Twitter-{$username}'
      target_field: key

This would give each person you follow on twitter a separate
notification bubble.

When overiding the default growl id, one thing to note is that if you
send a sticky notification, and then you send a non-sticky
notification with the same growl id, the non-sticky notification will
replace the sticky notification (since it will use the same bubble),
and will time out and go away like a normal non-sticky notification.
This means that your sticky window will get cleared.  Wubot tries to
prevent this sort of thing by using separate id for sticky
notifications and non-sticky notifications.  That way a sticky window
can nevery be cleared by a non-sticky window.

** IRC

The IRC notification lets you send a public IRC message to a channel
or a private message to a user.  For more information, see
[[irc.txt]].

** Reactor Config

So now let's put it all together.  The reactor config lives here:

  ~/wubot/config/reactor.yaml

Here are the final contents of the reactor config.

Warning: if you are not familiar with YAML, it is extremely sensitive
to whitespace!



---
rules:

  - name: notifications
    condition: subject is true
    rules:

      - name: console
        plugin: Console

      - name: growl color
        plugin: HashLookup
        config:
          source_field: color
          target_field: growl_priority
          lookup:
            red: 2
            yellow: 1
            orange: 1
            grey: 0
            bold black: 0
            green: -1
            magenta: -2
            purple: -2
            blue: -2
            cyan: -2
    
      - name: growl icon
        plugin: Icon
        config:
          image_dir: /Users/your_id/.icons

      - name: growl notify
        plugin: Growl

      - name: voice
        plugin: Voice


